can the height of a ceiling or the size
of a room impact how an audience
receives your message you deliver on
stage as a public speaker this might
seem like a crazy idea but I recently
had the chance to interview Sean canungo
who is one of the greatest public
speakers keynote speakers in Canada and
you'll be surprised at what Sean had to
say about how a room environment can
actually impact the speech you give hey
everyone my name is Wade Patterson and
my YouTube channel is all about helping
you become a more impactful Communicator
if that's a goal of yours whether it's
public speaking whether it's day-to-day
communication with people maybe it's
even social media tips and advice click
on that subscribe button please
subscribe to my channel check out some
of my other video content and hey we're
on this journey together to become
better public speakers better
communicators and I'd be stoked if you
join me for the ride so you might be
wondering why on Earth I interviewed one
of Canada's greatest keynote speakers
and it was part of a course that I
recently delivered on udemy a public
speaking course called mastering the
five Essentials of public speaking and
this is the most comprehensive and
organized content I've ever put together
all of my videos or recent videos will
link to that course so if you are
interested in improving your public
speaking skills click on that link udemy
always has deals on these courses so I'm
sure you'll find a great discount a
great price for the course check that
out but today's video I'm going to give
you that special piece of advice that
Sean talked about which has to do with
the layout of a room and how it can
impact you as a public speaker my
conversation with Sean he told me that
the second he walks into a room whatever
the vibe is of the room even if there's
nobody in there he can usually tell
right away if he has a higher
probability or a lower probability of
that speech being successful and I want
to jump right to that clip with Sean so
you can hear it from him directly on how
room size impacts him as a speaker it's
funny because like now I can go in a
room and I know exactly how it's going
to go
um you know it's when it's going to be a
difficult one you know when it's going
to be oh this is easy I'm going to smoke
this what's up
uh it's based on it's based on whole
number different factors number one it's
um
I look at the room so if the room has
high ceilings if it's if it's large with
very few people in it or it's large and
everybody's spaced out
um
and the the the the the energy is I
guess can dissipate Through The Ether
um that's number one number two it's the
makeup of the room if you don't have a
diverse group
um you have a homogeneous group old
white males
um old Executives it's going to be
harder because they have a lot more
group think especially in a senior
environment you don't want to laugh at
something that might be dumb or you may
not want to entertain us something that
might look dumb because you're looking
at your peers so in a very diverse group
um you're gonna have a easier time
um and so you know just little things as
well in terms of stage setup but really
at the end of the day it comes back to
the room and the audience those are two
things that I definitely look at and see
if I'm gonna have a a a good day and um
you know so you just it doesn't change
how you do the presentation in my mind
it's just understanding that you're not
going to get the energy back or you're
not going to get the laughs or you're
not going to get the head nods but just
understand that it still might be
resonating but don't get thrown off by
the feedback or if it doesn't come
through
um that's that's the one thing that I've
learned so Sean brought up a few
interesting points in that little
snippet of the conversation but what
does that all mean does that mean if you
walk into a large room with a bunch of
middle-aged white dudes that you are
destined to fail your speech no not
necessarily although it may mean that it
might be more difficult to win them over
but let's dissect what Sean talked about
in that interview I think the fact that
Sean acknowledged that the size and the
feel of a room can impact whether the
audience is likely to respond as easily
that is a very valid point point so how
do you give yourself the best chance of
success if that room layout is very
spread out High ceilings some of the
things that Sean say make it harder to
win over your audience the first tip is
to be aware of it if you have the
opportunity wherever you're delivering a
speech to get to that venue a little bit
early ideally before anyone else has
arrived there that's the perfect
situation but even if there are some
people there I always love to go into
the room a bit early and take some time
standing on stage I like to physically
stand on that stage to look out at the
audience even if it's empty chairs or a
couple sound technicians in the back I
like to just be up there I'll even ask
the the audio visual team to turn on the
house lights because that's something
that tends to be very challenging when
you're speaking on stage they want to
light up the presenter but those lights
are almost blinding I want to be
familiar with them I want to feel that
blinding effect because when it happens
for the first time and you're in front
of a large group of people that has the
ability to throw you off and to create a
little bit of stage fright I'd much
rather in advance go there have a mic
sound check know what my voice is going
to sound like know what the lights are
like that is really helpful but even if
you don't have the opportunity or the
luxury of having all of those
professional
Sound and Lighting adjustments and maybe
it's just a big room and you're
delivering a speech to a few hundred
people or 50 people it's still nice to
stand in front of the room and
understand the layout and what
everything looks like
it gives you that Comfort because now
when you're called up to the front of
the group or on stage it's not something
you're doing for the first time you've
already been there you've stood there
you've looked out at the room and that
feeling of familiarity is going to help
you adjust and help you deliver your
content as effectively as possible if
you're delivering a speech in one of
those dreaded big rooms with high
ceilings that Sean alluded to ensure
that your vocal variety is strong is
powerful is commanding especially the
loud version of it I've had the
challenge of delivering some speeches in
environments where people were mingling
and I had some of the room's attention
but not all of them and there was a lot
of background noise and my voice had to
almost be at a yell as I was trying to
gain people's attention and that was
just the median level if I wanted to
really get their attention I had to get
even louder and then bringing my voice
down was almost just a normal level
amount for an unusual situation but that
Baseline had to be raised and that's
something you may want to keep in mind
is that if you are delivering in a
really big room be prepared to be loud
be commanding because the more confident
you are on stage the feeling like you
belong there and that this speech is
something that everyone's going to
benefit from and you have no doubt about
it people will feed off of that
confidence they'll feed off of your loud
vocal range and that has a better chance
of them paying attention to your speech
and actually getting value from it on
the flip side if the room is really
small and intimate you may have a better
chance of success but sometimes that's
even more intimidating for you the
public speaker because your audience is
so close they're within a couple of feet
from where you're standing and I
personally sometimes I get more nervous
to live bring speeches in front of small
intimate audiences than I do in front of
large crowds standing on a stage but you
can try implementing vocal Variety in
the reverse way bringing your voice down
if you have a small space
and you have the luxury of everyone's
attention instead of just getting loud
and
using a vocal range that doesn't really
fit the environment
you can slow down your speech
it can take longer pauses in between
sentences
and you can lower the volume of your
voice
and just like raising your voice in that
big room
lowering your voice in a small room has
an equal
crazy effect of bringing the audience's
attention in because it's a change to
the norm It's A disruption but it fits
the environment of that intimate setting
and you can still draw your audience in
very effectively by lowering your vocal
variety if the crowd is rigid and Sean
talked a little bit about this sometimes
you get employees or that that group
think where everyone they're maybe
nervous about what other people might
think if they react a certain way or if
they're let's say their boss isn't
laughing then they're hesitant to laugh
because what is that person going to
think of them if they're doing something
different that is a reality that
sometimes happens depending on the
dynamic of the audience you're speaking
to one way to help get around this or to
get everybody doing something is to
encourage an audience or participation
maybe that is getting everyone to stand
up maybe it's before you present getting
them to shake hands with at least three
people sitting around them and that
action that everybody does at the same
time everyone participates where it
almost looks silly if they don't
participate because everyone else is
doing it but it has the opportunity to
loosen up relax your audience get
everyone in a more laid-back fashion
because if people see other people
interacting and engaging with whatever
you the speaker asked them to do they're
going to be more willing to do it and
then that sets the tone you've changed
the energy up and now you can deliver
your speech and you have a high better
probability of the audience taking in
the information that you want to deliver
a final tip I have for winning over an
audience in a difficult environment or a
big room or whatever the situation is
high ceilings like Sean was talking
about is to use humor
once an audience laughs especially
collectively everyone is laughing they
will collectively relax as well and you
the speaker will relax once you hear
your audience laughing those of you who
are friends of the channel subscribers
you know I talk about humor on pretty
much every video because I think it's
one of the most essential pieces of
public speaking
but in those difficult environment
situations the quickest way to win over
your audience is to use humor and try to
sprinkle it throughout your speech often
the other thing is to not be afraid to
pause So when you say something that's
funny say it and then just wait
and sometimes give a little bit of a
look to your audience like try to make
some of that eye contact raise an
eyebrow and you'd be surprised once
there's a little bit of laughter it's
like the floodgates because that becomes
contagious and once a few people are
laughing more people will start laughing
and that laughter builds and builds and
builds from there and the earlier you
can cause that to happen the more
success you're going to have with your
speech humor is an essential ingredient
for winning over an audience when you
are in a big room and as Sean put it
with those High ceilings that is a
difficult environment to present in I
hope my pieces of advice mixed with Sean
canungo's wisdom which by the way was
such a treat Sean is a phenomenal public
speaker definitely check check him out
on social media and he has an amazing
YouTube channel where he talks about the
importance of disruption and Innovation
I'm a huge fan of Sean's and
interviewing him for my course was one
of the most insightful things I learned
so much in that conversation so a huge
thank you to Sean canungo for allowing
me to interview him about something he
does so well which is public speaking
and I sincerely hope that this video
brought you a little bit of value if it
did please subscribe to my channel every
subscriber helps me grow this Channel
and bring you more awesome video content
about how to become a more impactful
Communicator thanks so much for watching
this one and I'll catch you on the next
people are more scared of public
speaking than they are of dying
is it just me or is that wrong hey
everyone my name is Wade Patterson and I
am passionate about impactful
communication my YouTube channel has
helped hundreds of thousands of people
improve their public speaking skills and
I am thrilled to release my first ever
course which has taken my decade of
learning about how to become a better
public speaker and boiled it down to
this theme of mastering the five
Essentials of public speaking I know for
a fact that if you can dial in these
five elements and perfect them you are
going to be a phenomenal public speaker
Head and Shoulders Above the Rest just
by being aware of these things by taking
the time to digest the information in
this course practice it and then put it
to action through your speeches you are
going to become a better public speaker
as a bonus in this course I sit down
with the world's greatest freestyle
rapper Harry Mack and one of the
greatest keynote speakers in the world
Sean kanungu and I get their tips
firsthand of what makes them incredible
at what they do if you agree that public
speaking definitely should not be
scarier than dying sign up for my course
you won't regret it